I'm Stephanie Cruz, it's the 21st of July 2019, we're up at the Ellen Ballet Visitor Center and I'm talking to Richard.
Richard, today's the 50th anniversary of the Moon Roundings, what are your memories of them?
Well I was a space-obsessed six-year-old at the time and I was living at Carlisle in Cumbria with my parents, obviously,
and I remember getting more and more excited with the build-up gradually through the previous missions,
particularly equipped by Apollo 8 doing the moon orbit and coming back,
and then Apollo 10 basically trying all the technology out prior to the landing.
I remember getting very excited and unable to sleep really, because from memory it was in the early hours of the landing.
I remember my father getting me up and sitting me on the seat in front of the TV in the middle of the night,
watching it and saying, you know, you'll remember this for the rest of your life.
And yeah, sure enough, absolutely, I've been gripped by space ever since really.
So did your career go into space?
Well it would have been nice, no not really, I'm actually a telecommunications engineer.
Oh, in close contact with you.
I did have an opportunity at one point of actually being interviewed for a job in Australia at the Timbid Villa radio telescope at Canberra,
but I chickened out. But that's about as close as I got.
But yeah, it's always been a great interest to me.
Very disappointed in the way that Apollo sort of stalled, nothing really led on from it.
Well it was quite a costly programme, wasn't it?
Yes, it was, and of course Cold War driven.
Great, and now you're back in the area, you moved back in?
We moved back into this area in 2001.
My wife is an artist and one of the main justifiers really was to come to somewhere where she could actually do something with her art.
She's basically made something of that.
As I say, I'm a telecommunications engineer, so I managed to get a transfer over here because we love the area.
What do you think about Emond Valley, the dams?
It's fabulous, one of our favourite places. Love the area and spent a lot of time here.
I used to come up here on motorbikes 30 years ago. Been coming ever since really.
Brilliant, thank you very much for that. That's okay.
That's really appreciated. Thank you.